docs: How to define a latency SLI-SLO from an exponential distribution metric in Cloud Monitoring (#56)
google/slo-generator: docs/pratices/latency_slo_distrib_metric_cloud_monitoring.md

## C - Find the typical bucket of the distribution metric and the associated border values

There are different ways of doing distributions in Cloud Operation Monitoring: **linear, custom or exponential**. These are the [Bucket Options](https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/ref_v3/rest/v3/TypedValue#bucketoptions) of the DISTRIBUTION type metrics.

Olivier Cervello's [gmon](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/professional-services/tree/master/tools/gmon)'s tool helps to inspect some data points of the last time series recorded on a metric

Example: `gmon metrics inspect loadbalancing.googleapis.com/https/backend_latencies -p <PROJECT_ID> --window 240`

Adapt the window size until you get data points, just one is enough.

The response contains the latency distribution [Bucket Options](https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/ref_v3/rest/v3/TypedValue#bucketoptions). (Note: this information is not returned by the GET on the metric descriptor, so we need an inspect the timeseries data)

This looks like:

```json
{"bucketOptions": {"exponentialBuckets": {"growthFactor": 1.4142135623730951,

>                                          "numFiniteBuckets": 64,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                                         "numFiniteBuckets": 64, ```
```

>                                          "scale": 1.0}},

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                                         "scale": 1.0}}}```
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
```

>                                          "scale": 1.0}}}```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                                         "scale": 1.0}}}
\```
```

## C- Find the typical bucket of the distribution metric and the associated border values

There are different ways of doing distributions in Cloud Operation Monitoring: **linear, custom or exponential**. These are the [Bucket Options](https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/ref_v3/rest/v3/TypedValue#bucketoptions) of the DISTRIBUTION type metrics.

Olivier Cervello [gmon](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/professional-services/tree/master/tools/gmon)'s tool helps to inspect some data points of the last time series recorded on a metric

example: gmon metrics inspect [loadbalancing.googleapis.com/https/backend_latencies](http://loadbalancing.googleapis.com/https/backend_latencies) -p &lt;PROJECT_ID> --window 240

Adapt the window size until you get data points, just one is enough.

The response contains the latency distribution [Bucket Options](https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/ref_v3/rest/v3/TypedValue#bucketoptions). (This information is not returned by the GET on the metric descriptor, c for that we need an inspect time series)

This looks like:

```json
'bucketOptions': {'exponentialBuckets': {'growthFactor': 1.4142135623730951,

>                                          'numFiniteBuckets': 64,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                                         "numFiniteBuckets": 64,
```

>                                          'scale': 1.0}},

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                                         "scale": 1.0}},
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
```
```

Once we have the type of buckets (Explicit, Linear, Exponential) we can calculate the min and max values ​​of each bucket of the distribution type metric.

As an example let’s use AppEngine latency (see above): exponential type, grow factor is square root of 2, 64 finite buckets, so 66 in total (+ and - l infinity)

>  This [gSuite Sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1pvGC_BW1l0D1D8GJY8I3H4QL76xVQ8t0QF_dIQ5lg5I/edit?usp=sharing)  allows to calculate the border values ​​of each bucket of an exponential distribution knowing these parameters (growfactor, numFiniteBuckets and scale)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 This [Google Sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1pvGC_BW1l0D1D8GJY8I3H4QL76xVQ8t0QF_dIQ5lg5I/edit?usp=sharing)  allows to calculate the border values ​​of each bucket of an exponential distribution knowing these parameters (growfactor, numFiniteBuckets and scale)
```

**The SLI-SLO threshold MUST be aligned with one of the border values, since we are blind between 2 borders** (see the trade off distributive explained above).

>  In SLO Generator we directly indicate the number of the bucket corresponding to the value of the top fontiere of the bucket as in this [yaml example](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/professional-services/blob/master/tools/slo-generator/samples/stackdriver/slo_gae_app_latency.yaml)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 In SLO Generator we directly indicate the number of the bucket corresponding to the value of the top fontiere of the bucket as in this [yaml example](https://github.com/google/slo-generator/blob/master/tools/slo-generator/samples/stackdriver/slo_gae_app_latency.yaml)
```

## D - Choose a border value for each latency SLO

Console / Monitoring / metric explorer

Select the service and the metric, with our example it is GAE / Response latency

Take a Stacker Bar performance

Duration of the graph = 6 weeks

Aggregator 50th:

![aggregator 50th](../images/latency_aggregator50th.png)

> The value of 6 ms returned by the graph and close in the [gSuite Sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1pvGC_BW1l0D1D8GJY8I3H4QL76xVQ8t0QF_dIQ5lg5I/edit?usp=sharing) to the 8 ms high border of bucket number 6

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The value of 6 ms returned by the graph is close in the [Google Sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1pvGC_BW1l0D1D8GJY8I3H4QL76xVQ8t0QF_dIQ5lg5I/edit?usp=sharing) to the 8 ms high border of bucket number 6.
```

Aggregator 99th:

![aggregator 99th](../images/latency_aggregator99th.png)

> The value of 125 ms returned by the graph and close in the [gSuite Sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1pvGC_BW1l0D1D8GJY8I3H4QL76xVQ8t0QF_dIQ5lg5I/edit?usp=sharing) to the 128ms high border of bucket number 14

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The value of 125 ms returned by the graph is close in the [Google Sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1pvGC_BW1l0D1D8GJY8I3H4QL76xVQ8t0QF_dIQ5lg5I/edit?usp=sharing) to the 128ms high border of bucket number 14.
```

We can define the following 2 latency SLOs by specifying the threshold_bucket value in the yaml config

* **Latency 8 ms** (threshold_bucket **6**) SLO=50%
* **Latency 128 ms** (threshold_bucket **14**) SLO=99%

> This will make 2 SLI-SLO definitions using two [yaml files](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/professional-services/blob/master/tools/slo-generator/samples/stackdriver/slo_gae_app_latency.yaml) in SLO Generator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will make 2 SLI-SLO definitions using two [yaml files](https://github.com/google/slo-generator/blob/master/tools/slo-generator/samples/stackdriver/slo_gae_app_latency.yaml) in SLO Generator.
```
